BunsenLabs - A light-weight and easily customizable GNU/Linux distribution based on the Openbox window manager.
====

##SYNOPSIS

Overview of the basic configuration of BunsenLabs.

##DESCRIPTION

BunsenLabs Linux is a distribution offering a light-weight and easily customizable Openbox desktop. This man page gives a brief overview of the configuration files.

##SYSTEM SERVICES

System services to be started at boot can be enabled using `systemctl enable <name>`. To view available services, use `systemctl list-unit-files`. For the graphical desktop, use `/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/openbox-xdg-autostart --list` or `/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/openbox-xdg-autostart --list` to list any XDG autostarted programs, and see $HOME/.config/openbox/autostart for all other applications.

##HOSTNAME

The hostname of the machine can be set using `hostnamectl set-hostname <hostname>`. It will then be written to /etc/hostname.

##LOCALIZATION

To set the system locale(s), run `dpkg-reconfigure locales` and select the locale(s) you wish to generate. If ssh access is required, it is recommended to choose "None" as the default locale. Alternatively, enabled the desired locales in /etc/locale.gen and generate them with `locale-gen`. The system-wide locale to be used can be configured in /etc/locale.conf. These settings can be overridden on a per-user basis by keeping a user-specific locale.conf in $HOME/.config/locale.conf. The user-specific file will take precedence if it exists.

##TIME

The local time is configured by calling `timedatectl set-timezone <Region/City>`. A relative symlink is then created from /etc/localtime to the correct zoneinfo file under /usr/share/zoneinfo/. The real-time clock, which keeps track of time when the computer is off, can be configured to either be in UTC or in local time by calling `timedatectl set-local-rtc <false|true>`. The default is UTC.

##FILE SYSTEMS

File systems are configured in /etc/fstab, and encryption mappings are configured in /etc/crypttab.

##PACKAGE MANAGERS

Both aptitude and apt-get are configured in /etc/apt/apt.conf.

##BOOT LOADER

GRUB's configuration is generated from /etc/default/grub by `update-grub`.

##MODULES

Most modules should be loaded on-demand. Modules to be unconditionally loaded at boot can be specified in /etc/modules-load.d/, and modules to be blacklisted from automatically loading can be configured in /etc/modprobe.d/.

##SOURCES.LIST

BunsenLabs is based on Debian stable and so Ubuntu PPAs & Debian testing/unstable/experimental repositories should _not_ be added to /etc/apt/sources.list or any files in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/.

##BUGS

Probably. If you find any, please report them to the bugtacker (https://www.bunsenlabs.org/resources.html#core-packages-and-bug-reports).

##SEE ALSO

systemctl(1), hostnamectl(1), hostname(5), locale.conf(5), timedatectl(1), timezone(3), hwclock(8), fstab(5), crypttab(5), apt-get(8), aptitude(8), apt.conf(5), update-grub(8), modules-load.d(5), modprobe.d(5), systemd(1)

##AUTHOR

Written by Matthew T Hoare
